Team Name: ProtoCreators

Motto: 

What is a Motto?
******TO BE DELETED and replaced with MOTTO Phrase ---- A motto is a phrase that explains a brand's values by summarizing their core principles or beliefs. A motto is often what comes to mind first when people think about your brand or business. A slogan, on the other hand, is a short statement that promises good value for a service or commodity.*****


A brief bio of each Team Member:

Team Member 1: I am Mngxozana Simnikiwe, I am from Cape Town, I want to be a software Developer , I enjoy Art and music, i selected an art palette and a smiling face because they are more suited to describing me.

Team Member 2: My name is Anathi Silangwe, I am from a small town in the Eastern Cape called Flagstaff. My main goal is to become a successful lady in tech, I wish to have perfect programming skills so that I can compete well in the working industry. My main hobbies are playing netball, reading books and cooking. I am a foodie lover. My emojis are the pizza emoji and the smiley face with two hearts

Team Member 3: My name is Fanelesibonge Tshalata. I am from a little town called Harding, situated in KwaZulu Natal. My goal is to be a software developer at Amazon. I play chess and soccer as hobbies. I chose the book and detective emojis.

Team Member 4: My name is Simvuyele Tofile and I am from a hometown called Gqeberha. My professional goal is to be a white-hat hacker in cybersecurity. My hobbies are playing chess and coding. The emojis I selected last Friday in class are smiley and laughing emojis.

Team Member 5: I am Ntokozo Magolego, from Pretoria. My professional goals are to build a professional network within the IT industry, master programming languages and obtain industry certifications to enhance my skills and credibility. My hobbies are gaming and programming.


Task 1

SDLC methodologies.
1. Waterfall model               : The earliest SDLC approach that was used for software development.
2. Agile                         : A project based on delivering requirements iteratively and incrementally throughout the life cycle.
3. Scrum                         : A management framework that teams use to self-organize and work towards a common goal.

4. DSDM                          : An agile method that focuses on the full project lifecycle.
5. Lean                          : A concept that emphasizes optimizing efficiency and minimizing waste in the software development process. 
6. Rational unified process      : A software development and project management process that provides a disciplined and methodical approach towards assigning tasks and responsibilities in a team

7. Feature Driven Development    : This is a customer-centric software development procedure known for short iterations and frequent releases. Its purpose is to emphasize breaking down large projects into smaller, manageable steps and delivering them in quick succession.
8. Joint Application Development : It is a methodology that involves the client or the end user in the design and development of a software application through a succession of collaborative workshops called JAD sessions in defining the business need and developing a solution based on that need.

9. Extreme Programming           : Is an agile software development framework that aims to produce higher-quality software and a higher quality of life for the development team.
10. Rapid Application Development: A concept that emphasizes working on software and being more adaptative than older development methods.

TASK 2

Explaining briefly the different types of prototyping.

1. Throw-away Prototyping  : Is the process of creating prototype versions of a product, building initial ideas for different applications, interfaces, or functions. These functions that are created do not necessarily have to be included in the finished system. Rather, the main purpose or idea is to collect feedback, prove concepts, or tackle other research tasks.

2. Evolutionary Prototyping: It is the circuit model in which the system is developed in increments so that it can readily be modified in response to end-user and customer feedback. The main intention is to implement external feedback, identify new requirements and confirm compatibility as new requirements are added. One of the main advantages of Evolutionary prototyping is that the delivery of the system is speeded up and the system is more likely to meet the user's requirements.

3. Incremental Prototyping : This is the prototyping technique in which the various prototypes are eventually combined into a single product, reducing the feedback time between the user and the application development team. These individual prototypes are evaluated and refined separately and individually they can be evaluated for consistency in look, feel, behavior, and terminology.

4. Extreme Prototyping     : It is the prototyping technique that breaks down web development into three phases, each of the phases are based on the preceding.
Extreme protrotyping is conducted in three phases:
Phase 1: Build the HTML wireframes to stimulate the presentation layer. These web pages have limited interactivity. They are complete enough to show users the various user journeys through the application.
Phase 2: Transform the wireframes into fully functional HTML pages, tying them to a stimulated service layer.
Phase 3: Coding and implementing the services layer.

TASK 3  : Three phototye fidility 

1. Low-fidelity prototype :Is a quick and easy way to translate high-level design concepts into tangible and testable artifacts. It is often referred to as the skeleton of the final design because it gives the designers or programmers an idea about the project. It includes visual design, meaning some of the visual attributes are presented, but it only includes the important elements of the design and has interactivity based on the drafted design. An example of such prototype would be paper prototyping and clickable wireframes.
      Advantages    : cheap and simple; very quick and easy to create; since it's collaborative, more people can be involved in the process, increasing group work.
      Disadvantages : Due to the simplicity of the prototype, functionality cannot be tested. It would also be unclear to users during tests. Interactivity is limited since there are no complex animations and transitions.

2. High-fidelity prototype : Is a solution that is pretty close to the ready-to-release version of a product. High-fidelity prototypes take you as close as possible to a true representation of the user interface. It includes a realistic and detailed design , high interactivity since there are more complex animations and transitions and all the content in the design is based on realistic and full content. An example of such prototype would be a rich interactive sandbox that allows test participants to explore a product's different features.
      Advantages   : Improved Functionality , Better Design , Increased Efficiency , Draws potential investors and clients because of it's good demonstration on how of the product works.
     Disadvantages : Time-consuming , Expensive 

3. Medium-fidelity prototype : Is a prototype with limited functionality but clickable areas which presents the interactions and navigation possibilities of an application.  Mid-fidelity prototype are created using one color (gray or black), generic font, and basic shapes such as ovals and rectangles representing individual UI elements available on the page. It includes Visual hierarchy which defines where elements should be located on the page/screen.
    Advantages    : The prototype also gives more flexibility, exploration, and creativity during the implementation stage
    Disadvantages :  limited functionality, longer time to create  and it is also cost more than lo-fi.
         

1.Extreme prototyping : Is a development process which is used mainly for the development of web applications and also in breaking down the web development into three sequential phases. First phase is a static prototype that consists of HTML pages ,in the second phase the screens are programmed and fully operational using a simulated services layer and lastly in the third phase services are implemented.And this prototyping helps developers catch bugs and issues well before it reaches the production stage. Furthermore it ensures that the user experience and perfomance of the app match the user expectations.









